# Movie-Recommendation-System
This is a Movie Recommendation system made in python. It uses "The Movies" dataset from kaggle which contains diffrent metadata of the movies like Title, Genre, Language, Cast, Crew etc. I have removed unwanted coloumns and empty rows and tweaked some values accourding to the actual real world data. As part of data cleaning, I have converted the format of data and made them lowercase and removed spaces between the words. Combined all metadata into a single column. Apply TEIDF Vectoriser to convert this data into TFIDF matrix which select the features by itself. Another option here is Count vectoriser and only reason to choose TFID is that count vectoriser uses count or frequency of words and TFID uses counts and relative positiong of words w.r.t other words. These functions can be found in SciKit Librery, make sure to pass appropriate paarmeters accourding to you need. 

There are two parts of this system. First is movie based Recommendation in which you input different movies you watched or liked and it outputs movies related to them. For this i have made a centroid vector which is mean of every distict parameter of all the movies. This gives a movie which is evenly related to all given movies as a base case for searching. It then outputs K nearest neighbours (KNN) of the centroid movie. Different filters can be applied like genre, Cast, crew, tags etc. These filters are applied and top movies from the list will be in the Output.

Another part of the system uses user based recommendation. For this, the previous watch histry or faverate movies are required. Based on them, users will be divided into clusters. Rating column and favarate movies are used for clustering. The top rated movies among the cluster of users and mvies related to them will be recommended to all the users in the cluster. There will be an option to ignore already watched movies. There is a function which takes required parameters and gives the output using these two methods. 

I made it into function to integrate it with the telegram chat bot which acts as interface between the user and system. The bot is currently inactive and i suggest you to make your own bot and enter the API key yourself. You can use it without telegram just by passing paarmeters into the function like shown in example. There are over 45000 movies in 26 different languages in the dataset. I have provded the Documentation for The project. I Hope it is Helpful. Thank you for going by  	:v:  __...
